fix(tube): Fixed tube etl mapping (#83)
uc-cdis/compose-services: README.md

## Setup

### Dependencies

  - OpenSSL
  - Docker and Docker Compose

### Docker and Docker Compose Setup

If you've never used Docker before, it may be helpful to read some of the Docker documentation to familiarize yourself with containers. You can also read an overview of what Docker Compose is [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/) if you want some extra background information.

The official *Docker* installation page can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/install/#supported-platforms). The official *Docker Compose* installation page can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#prerequisites). For Windows and Mac, Docker Compose is included into Docker Desktop. If you are using Linux, then the official Docker installation does not come with Docker Compose; you will need to install Docker Engine before installing Docker Compose.
Go through the steps of installing Docker Compose for your platform, then proceed to set up credentials. Note, that Docker Desktop is set to use 2 GB runtime memory by default. 

> > 🙋‍♂️ **NOTE:** As a minimum, make sure to increase the size of the **memory to 6 GB** (or more) as described [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/#resources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** As a minimum, make sure to increase the size of the **memory to 6 GB** (or more) as described [here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/#resources).
```

### Start running your local Gen3 Docker Compose environment

> > 🙋‍♂️ **NOTE**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**:
```

> 

> > 🛑 If your Gen3 Data Commons does not host any data, yet, we recommend commenting out the [kibana-service section](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L270-L281) in the `docker-compose.yaml` and the [guppy section](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services/blob/master/nginx.conf#L120-L124) in the `nginx.conf` file. After having setup the first program/project and uploaded the first data, we recommend enabling these sections. Precisely, re-enable both services after you have done with this two steps: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 🛑 If your Gen3 Data Commons does not host any data, yet, we recommend commenting out the [kibana-service section](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L270-L281) in the `docker-compose.yaml` and the [guppy section](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services/blob/master/nginx.conf#L120-L124) in the `nginx.conf` file. After having setup the first program/project and uploaded the first data, we recommend enabling these sections. Precisely, re-enable both services after you completed the following two steps: 
```

> > 1. [Generating Test Metadata](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#generating-test-metadata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 1. [Generate Test Metadata](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#generating-test-metadata)
```

> > 2. Upload these simulated data using Portal UI (follow `testData/DataImportOrder.txt` for uploading each data nodes, see [Useful links](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#useful-links) for how)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 2. Upload the simulated test metadata to the Data Portal UI. Follow [gen3.org](https://gen3.org/resources/user/submit-data/) and [Useful links](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#useful-links) for how-to guides and tutorials. 
```

> > 🟢 After then, re-enable kibana and guppy services and, continue follow [Configuring guppy for exploration page](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#configuring-guppy-for-exploration-page) to run ETL Tube job that create required ES indices for exploration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 🟢 Finally, re-enable kibana and guppy services before continuing with the section [Configuring guppy for exploration page](https://github.com/uc-cdis/compose-services#configuring-guppy-for-exploration-page). 
```

```
after you update some code in order to see changes without having to rebuild all the microservices. Keep in mind that running `docker-compose restart` does not apply changes you make in the docker-compose file. Look up the Docker documentation for more information about [volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/).

### Spark service hdfs reformatting issue

> The `spark-service` start up perform `hdfs namenode -format` formatting which is a compute intensive operation. If your `spark-service` fail to start (due to get killed by docker daemon), e.g. the container status is `Exited (255)` and tailing the last lines of log as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spark-service` starts up runs `hdfs namenode -format` formatting, which is a compute intensive operation. If your `spark-service` fails to start due to being killed by docker daemon, e.g. the container status is `Exited (255)`, then tail the last lines of log as follows:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> NOTE:  The ETL [Tube](https://github.com/uc-cdis/tube) job creates required ElasticSearch indices for the Exploration page.
```

 When the data dictionary is changed, those files are also configured accordingly so that the exploration page can work.

Install `datadictionary` Python dependency
```
docker exec -it tube-service bash -c "cd /tmp/datadictionary && pip install ."
```

Run `bash ./guppy_setup.sh` to create/re-create ES indices

### Enabling data upload to s3

> The `templates/user.yaml` file has been configured to grant `data_upload` privileges to the `yourlogin@gmail.com` user.  Connect it to your s3 bucket by configuring access keys and bucket name in `fence-config.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `templates/user.yaml` file has been configured to grant `data_upload` privileges to the `username1@gmail.com` user.  Connect it to your s3 bucket by configuring access keys and bucket name in `fence-config.yaml`.
```

If one or multiple data files have been submitted to an S3 bucket and you do not want to set up automation through an SNS and SQS, a simple alternative is to index the data files manually after the upload. The upload command creates a "blank" record in indexd, which should be then updated by adding the file's size and hash. This can be done with a PUT request to [index](http://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uc-cdis/Indexd/master/openapis/swagger.yaml#/index/updateBlankEntry), where the base URL is `https://your-commons.org/index/index/blank/{GUID}`. A list of URLS to reach other services from the Gen3 Framework is shown [here](https://gen3.org/resources/developer/microservice/#microservice-nginx-route-table).
Only once the uploaded data file is indexed, graph metadata can be submitted to it.

## Persistent Store

The `postgres` RDBMS and the document store `esproxy-service` persistent stores are backed by [docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) as follows:

```
docker volume ls | grep psqldata
local     compose-services_psqldata

docker volume ls | grep esdata
local     compose-services_esdata
```

> If you would like to re-spin everything and start anew from the scratch, you can/must delete these volumes prior bringing up the stack again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to re-spin everything and/or start from scratch, you can/must delete these volumes prior bringing up the stack again.
```

> > 🛑️ **WARNING**: This will **PERMANENTLY DELETE ALL DATA** state that you have uploaded or ingested into these persistent services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 🛑️ **WARNING**: This will **PERMANENTLY DELETE ALL DATA** stored on the persistent services.
```
